---
layout: post
title:  frangipani flowers
description: about flowers and lost memory and love
date:   2020-11-08 15:01:35 +0300
image:  '/images/07.jpg'
tags:   [notes, technology, lifestyle]
---

jo malone has stopped manufacturing the frangipani flower smell cologne. i went online and ordered off a very strange website a few weeks ago and today it had arrived, i had even forgotten what i ordered when I saw that the package came from ukraine. the bottle has a yellow tint to it, clearly indicating aged existence, an item that has some shared some years on Earth with me. i immediately fell in love with it.

i don’t think i’ve ever smelled real frangipani flower, nor identified one in the wild, i only like the white pedal ones, with a bright yellow heart, and somehow the smell takes me back, back ages before I was born. It’s not one of those other floral smells like rose, lavender jasmine that gets overly commercialized to dissolve any personal attachment, and those that are popular always throughout time that lost their tie to a specific time or world. they smell like modern world to me and i don’t like that. the smell of frangipani flower is old and reminds me of old times, a good time where one can take the whole life to love just one person, maybe even multiple lives. I think it’s an age before I was born. somehow i think that’s where i belong too. if it had ever existed, i think i would be in the ancient times, where one person was enough to love and sustain the slow life with not much distraction of fame and too many shiny things and people with shiny things. i’ve always thought i belong more on horsebacks than cars, with the feeling of the wind and bumps of the road than smooth, fast vehicles that makes you feel barely like moving. i preferred traveling on endless fields of grass than endless highways or tracks. i preferred loving one person entirely with no choice and giving completely than always finding the optimal solution with endless trying. frangipani flowers. they are not of the most dashing shape nor mix of color, they don’t mean to attract. the smell simply takes those who feel like it home. in my mind, i believe that someone or something would take me home, even if it means home was several decades of centuries ago. even if it means we’re old bones ancient souls in a society with all fast-moving things and never-stopping people. i believe.